---
layout: post
title:  "Welcome to DSSG 2015"
date:   2015-05-27 12:42:53
categories: jekyll blog
---

The UW [eScience Institute][escience] is happy to welcome the participants in our first Data Science for Social Good Summer Incubator. During this summer, four teams will make the WRF Data Science Studio on the 6th floor of the Physics/Astronomy building here on our beautiful Seattle campus their base of operations, as they work on four different projects. The goal of all these projects is to leverage the power Data Science towards the achievement of social good. The projects are diverse, covering a range of social issues, and the potential impact is significant. The teams are composed of several components: the core of the team are four students who will work on the project full-time for the duration of the summer. These students were selected from the pool of extraordinary applicants that responded to the [call for applications](http://escience.washington.edu/what-we-do/data-science-for-social-good) published earlier this year. The second facet of this team are project leads (PLs). These are researchers from a variety of backgrounds, disciplines and institutions at UW and from the surrounding community. The project leads are the domain experts, providing the motivating questions for each project, the specific goals for the summer, in terms of project deliverables, as well as access to the data-sets needed to achieve these deliverables. We will also introduce each of the PLs in later posts. From the eScience Institute, each team is also mentored by one of the eScience Data Scientists, which will provide guidance on the technical and algorithmic tools that we will use. In addition, each team will be joined by a high-school student or two from the [ALVA](http://depts.washington.edu/genomics/hsprog/hswrksps.shtml) internship program, which are spending the summer on UW campus, learning programming and participating in this project. Together, these multi-faceted teams will power through a set of rich and complex data-sets, producing answers to some compelling and important questions.

The theme of this year's DSSG is 'Urban Science'. This theme stems from and dovetails from the recently launched University-wide initiative in [urban research and practice](urban-uw). The specific data sets that we will analyze all come from the Seattle metro area, but we expect that the methods that we will use, and the implications of the analysis will generalize broadly to other regions and other data-sets. In this spirit, we will aim to make as much of the process leading to the results transparent and reproducible, while respecting the fact that some of the data we will analyze contains sensitive information. The privacy and security of these data-sets is at the core of the goals of the projects, so the balance between transparency and privacy is an interesting and challenging one. Future posts will explore the tools, processes and methods that we use to balance between them.


[escience]:    http://escience.washington.edu
[urban-uw]:    http://urban.uw.edu